welcome to 13 of the most painful
smartphone fails ever starting off
pretty bad but ending up in some
absolute nightmares number 13 is the new
Motorola RAZR a phone that everyone
wanted to love I give it 9 out of 10 for
the idea a phone that manages to be both
a throwback and a glimpse of the future
at the same time it's just that it's
been delivered with four out of ten
execution there is an initial high when
you flip open this folding screen for
the first time it's beautiful it's
enough to make a grown man cry but
that's about where the fun ends because
to achieve this almost every single
feature that actually has a use is
compromised the battery sucks the camera
sucks and even the display has had an
alarming amount of reported issues that
said I don't think it's completely fair
to bash new ideas just because the
implementation isn't great and that's
the reason the Rays the reason the razor
the reason the phone is not further down
on the list it's the fact that it kind
of succeeded in its intention of just
being cool and once again people are
paying attention to Motorola so overall
I'm only giving this eight two out of
ten fail rating number 12 is on the
subject of foldable phones the very
first one you might have heard of a
company called Royale they were founded
with the sole purpose of creating
flexible displays it became very clear
though that displays is probably what
they should stick to see when they were
founded in 2012 no other company was
even close to building a foldable
smartphone of their own so royal
probably thought easy we got this if we
can be the first company to build a
foldable smartphone well but what I
think happened is they became complacent
before we knew what was happening it was
2019 and Samsung was about to launch an
actually good foldable phone at which
point it looks like we all panicked and
just released whatever their latest
prototype was as the Royal flexpay they
knew that if they weren't first and they
really didn't have anything it's a
similar form factor to the huawei mate
XS I took a look at a few weeks ago
except it's a thickness of a book when
folded up and the software is so
bug-ridden it was bringing up visions of
times that I thought we'd move past
the flexpay was just a really bad start
to foldable smartphones it was bad
enough that it made people take a step
back and question why on earth companies
were trying to fold their phones in half
in the first place
so this one's getting a three out of ten
failed from me also a shout out to Surf
Shack VPN for being the sponsor of this
video number 11 is airpower not a
smartphone but a smartphone related bit
of tech well they ended up being a bit
of a no-show back in 2017 alongside the
iPhone 10 Apple showed the world
wireless charging done right a pad that
you can place your device's anywhere on
and they'll just start charging and this
was massive because whilst Apple is
never really the first to enter new
product categories generally when they
do they tend to set a new industry
standards not this time the next two
years were a constant swirl of rumors
and teasers air power was mentioned
explicitly in iOS updates as a supported
feature and quite literally on the
physical packaging of the second
generation air ports but come 2019 Apple
canceled it or IP air power see with
normal wireless charging the back of
your phone has one coil and the charger
has another coil and placing these two
coils together creates an
electromagnetic field that delivers
power to your phone but the only way
that Apple's idea was possible the idea
of having an entire pad that could
deliver charge not just one specific
spot on it that you had to align your
phone up with is by packing many
wireless charging coils into a tight
space and in the end the company
couldn't find a way of doing this
without either the electromagnetic
fields interfering with each other or
just generating too much heat so not the
kind of fail that's gonna a
company like Apple but at the same time
it will mean that future announcements
are just treated with a little bit of
extra depth three out of ten for this
one
now in the last couple of years we've
seen quite a lot of smart phone
companies that we previously loved just
kind of fade away disappear into almost
non-existence and for each one of them
there's usually been one or two mistake
devices phones that have been so bad
that they've kind of set them on the
path to ultimately failing before
example HTC in 2020 is dead as a dodo
they've fallen from an 11% market share
in 2011 to less than 0.1% now and there
are a whole number of factors but one
firm that really sealed their fate
was the HTC u ultra see if there was a
time when I was actually excited about
HTC phones you might remember the HTC
one he had a beautiful metal unibody
with a gorgeous display and the company
collabed with beats to make its boom
sound speakers it even had a software
skin that people didn't hate which was
more than you could say for a lot of
phones at the time this phone could have
been a turning point for the company had
they continued the innovation but they
followed up with a couple of mediocre
phones and then one just bad one and
with the insane pace of the smartphone
market you just can't afford to do this
the big selling point of the u ultra was
a secondary ticker display that nobody
asked for the battery sucked and instead
of building on their great Beats Audio
technology they removed it alongside the
headphone jack which at this time was
still a pretty sensitive topic so
considering where HTC once was and where
they are now you ultras getting a four
out of ten fail number nine is LG and
their g5 see there was a point when LG
was soaring in the smartphone market
their g3 was one of the first phones in
the world with a quad HD display and it
was a genuinely competent alternative to
buying a Samsung or an iPhone
unfortunately life's not always good the
g4 that came after shipped with what
could only be described as a cursed
software tens of thousands of GeForce
would just randomly start shutting down
they'd restart and I didn't get stuck in
continuous boot loops people were mad at
LG but thankfully the g5 was coming the
company's one shot at redemption at
reminding their fans why they loved LG
in the first place so they announced a
firm that you can stick a grip on to the
LG g5 s big selling point was the fact
that you can attach modules things like
a camera grip that adds some extra
battery but considering the LG is not
exactly gonna sell tens of millions of G
fives an ecosystem of modules built just
for this one phone is destined to fail
nobody's gonna want to make these
modules because instead of just building
a universal gadget that could appeal to
billions of smartphone users across the
world you'd be building a gadget that at
its absolute maximum could appeal to
let's say the three million people who
actually bought a g5 specifically so
just like with HTC it only took a few
not-so-great phones for LG to kind of
lose its place in people's hearts so
again the g5 gets a 4 out of 10 from me
number 8 is blackberry oh gosh no
blackberry of all these smart phone
companies that have gone from riches to
rags blackberries fall is definitely the
most dramatic it's hard to believe but
we're talking a company that used to
have a 50% market share in the u.s. 50%
and they've gone from that to a quite
literal zero blackberry is gone and
their z10 smartphone pretty much
embodies the entire reason they failed
blackberry never understood why people
wanted a smart phone to be clear they
were insanely successful before the
smartphone era and it feels like this
made them complacent when people got
their first taste of iOS and Android and
they started wanting a proper app
ecosystem blackberry completely
misjudged it they thought oh maybe it's
touch screens that people want
so they made a touch screen version of
their existing phone which by the way
was one of the worst smartphones in
existence when this didn't work
blackberry could have and probably
should have just dropped everything and
tried to build the best possible Android
phone but they missed the mark again
they thought ah we know what it is what
people really want is a proper
smartphone operating system we'll get
him this time so they built the
BlackBerry z10 running on their new
in-house BlackBerry 10 OS and to its
credit it finally felt like a smart
phone but again they failed to realize
the importance of apps blackberry
thought though because security used to
be one of their big selling points they
should focus on that again which meant
that they couldn't make this OS as open
source and as developer friendly as they
need it to again a fatal mistake
so to reiterate I don't think the z10 is
the worst phone BlackBerry's ever made
they've had some real shockers in their
time but just like with HTC and LG the
bigger failings are often not the
one-off mistakes you make it's quite
easy to recover from a mistake the real
problems come when you start heading
down the entirely wrong path and the z10
was exactly that with blackberry five
out of ten this was messy number seven
is Samsung's bixby virtual assistant
it's become a bit of a joke in the tech
community see the thing is for most
Android users who wanted a virtual
assistant Google assistant did pretty
much everything they needed to anyway
and so when Samsung launched Bixby
because it didn't really have one killer
feature that was in
and he going to make people jump over on
mass their only option was to force
people to use it
Samsung's phones would start coming
preloaded with Bixby as their default
virtual assistant and they had a
dedicated button to summon it like some
sort of Genie that could just about tell
the weather it didn't help that big
sphere launch was both slower than
Google assistant and is struggled
massively with accents it's almost a
shame because Bixby's gotten loads
better since launch we're at a stage
where there's two camps of people those
that have never heard a Bixby and so
don't really care and those who know all
about it but having seen it through its
rocky start
basically think it's a meme at this
point knowing Samsung though they won't
stop pushing Bixby as much as I want
them to so I'm giving this one a five
out of ten number six is the Amazon fire
phone and it was a monumental
miscalculation see the way Amazon's
business model works is they sell ultra
cheap hardware like the Kindle like the
echo but the reason they still make
money from them is because these devices
become a portal for people to then
borrow other stuff from Amazon for
example by getting a Kindle into as many
people's hands as possible Amazon can
sell more ebooks from the Amazon
bookstore anyways the fire fern operated
with a similar concept but it was Sir
Matt worse
for starters it was little more than a
glorified portal to the Amazon App Store
but the company also tried to push a
feature called Firefly which allowed you
to take photos of things in the real
world and oh so generously gave you a
link to buy them from you guessed it
amazon.com they even had the audacity to
remove the Google Play Store all but
ensuring that every digital purchase
made on this phone goes directly to
Amazon and the icing on this cake was
that unlike their other hardware
products which somewhat make up for this
by being cheap the fire phone wasn't
priced right alongside apples by phone
ittan helped that the fire phones
coolest trick was a set of four cameras
that enabled something called dynamic
perspective which was a bit pointless at
the best of times and vomit-inducing at
the worst so the fire phone was
comically bad it was both the beginning
and the end of the company's mobile
efforts and Amazon took a 170 million
dollar L just trying to make it the only
reason isn't further down the list is
because Amazon as a company had enough
and going for them in other areas that
they could just sort of pretend
didn't happen still though they're quite
deserving of a prestigious six out of
ten fail number five is essential the
company that hit the ground for flying
in the smartphone market but in four
short years they went from crushing it
to crushing in it Z essential was
started by Andy Rubin referred to as the
founder of Android and he made a whole
lot of claims about what essential was
going to do it worked before he's making
a single product essential had hundreds
of millions of dollars in investments
and the company was valued at over 1
billion dollars again without making a
single product with that in mind then
you probably saw where this was going
yeah they screwed it up but not just
once the first step was a smartphone and
it wasn't terrible visually I'd say it
was one of the most futuristic phones on
the market it's just that there was a
huge gap between the kinds of claims
that were made and what the firm
actually delivered after that didn't
work out
essential did a weird one they bought
the company behind a dead email client
there were rumors that the company was
working on a I powered smartphone so
they were gonna use the technology from
this email client to give the phone the
ability to auto reply to emails and that
all adds up we just never actually saw
this phone anyways at this stage Andy
Rubin was then exposed for being
involved in a scandal which I won't go
into in this video but in what seemed
like a bit of a last-ditch attempt to
get people back on his side he released
images of project Jem a completely new
kind of smartphone that I'll admit looks
fascinating however it looked like
Rubens reputation was beyond repair at
this point so a couple of months later
essential announced they were shutting
down essential essentially failed sorry
have been waiting all video to say that
one but yeah I'm giving this a 7 out of
10 fail now you might have seen
something recently about apples slowing
down older iPhones this is bad but at
the same time there are two sides to
this coin on one hand you can see why
they might have done it the amount of
charge that a battery can hold it
naturally falls over time so Apple's
reasoning was if we slow down older
iPhones then we can help people's
battery to still last a full day on top
of that some older iPhones were shutting
down unexpectedly because of excess
strain on the batteries so throttling
the performance actually fixed this
issue and to be honest I
believe their reasoning this is the kind
of thing that Apple would do this is a
company that is famous for doing
everything they can to make the user
experience simple they're the kind of
company that will take options away that
will themselves decide what is best for
their users as opposed to letting them
decide for themselves and this is an
example of that on the other hand
regardless of whether the intention was
innocent or not Apple should have just
been more open about it by hiding what
they were doing it always made it seem
malicious as if Apple was slowing down
older iPhones to keep people upgrading
to the latest either way it's come back
to bite them
Apple has got to pay up to five hundred
million dollars back to customers not to
mention just the damage in the trust of
the animal brand so 7 out of 10 again
for this one okay top three and in third
place is red hydrogen where do I even
start
well I guess first of all no disrespect
to the company red they make cameras
that well actually I've had pretty poor
experiences with them but some people
swear by them a shout out to Marquez
although fun fact the video him and I
filmed together were shot on his red
camera and we actually filmed it twice
because this eighty thousand dollar
machine it crashed partway through
anyways I digress the point is that red
makes high-end cinema great cameras so
when they announce that they're making a
smartphone the hype was crazy you've got
the fact that this was being made by a
company that really understood cameras
that they promised attachable modules
and that the top-end version was sixteen
hundred dollars of course if the red
hydrogen one was going to set a new
industry standard except it sucked upon
being delayed not once but twice the
cameras that the phone eventually
shipped with the had literally nothing
in common with what bread was actually
famous for making it's not just that
they weren't better than the cameras on
other top-end flagships is that they
were actually very much worse and the
modules we were promised well they just
never arrived
and so after failing so incredibly hard
on the first red hydrogen the company
decided that second time is the charm
and I'll spare you the details but it
wasn't a seven out of ten for the red
hydrogen series of ferns or Lakoff right
now number two is a little bit
controversial but I think it's justified
Google pixel for Google not red not
essential Google
and so when a company of this scale
makes moves there's a bigger expectation
and just more to lose if things go wrong
and wrong things did go the pixel for
was not just a fail it was three fails
rolled into one the first of all the
leaks the pixel for was leaked so
dramatically so far ahead of its launch
the Google decided to just sort of go
with it and confirm the leaks now I can
see how the strategy might work
revealing the way your phone looks but
then telling people to wait to see what
it can do and then dropping a link to a
live stream happening in a couple of
days time that makes sense but the way
Google did it they reveal the pixel for
literally four months before it actually
launched that's enough time that by the
time people were actually holding the
phone for the first time it already felt
like old news and that brings us on to
the second thing one of the big hype
factors is that the pixel for was when
Google would debut their new solely
radar technology and in the lead up to
solely they showed us all kinds of hyper
futuristic applications like your phone
being able to detect minut and movements
performed even from a distance but the
reality was much less cool it barely
extended beyond just swiping over your
screen to scroll through songs the third
fail was the hardware itself there were
just so many unfortunate decisions made
here from the phone just shipping with
64 gigs of storage to Google canceling
their previous scheme where pixel owners
could get unlimited storage of photos
and videos the fact that the battery
wasn't great or the fact that they
skipped the ultra wide camera in favor
of the much less popular zoom camera
so yeah the pixel for not a runaway
success is three fairly substantial
fails thrown together to make a pretty
bad launch now just before number one
couple of things a if you're enjoying
this video a sub to the channel would be
incredible and B I have actually made
another video on ten more of the biggest
fails so if your favorite fail isn't on
here it might be on there okay number
one is its bordering on comical I don't
remember the last time I saw a phone
that misjudged the smartphone market
this badly
welcome to the energizer p18 K on paper
it was the dream people our phones
people love big batteries so why not
just fuse them together to create a
small phone that can last literally 50
days on a single charge it turns out
there is a
there are things that have never been
done before because no one's thought of
the idea or because there are the very
cutting edge of technology yeah well
this isn't one of those cases the P 18k
in its pursuit to be different has
really just become difficult we're
talking the smartphone the ways it
retimed the amount of a normal mobile
one that's so thick you'll probably need
to carry around a bag just to keep it
with you
so okay fine it's not the kind of phone
I buy but it's an interesting experiment
can we just leave it at that
then it got worse see energizer then set
up an IndieGoGo campaign to raise a
million dollars for the mass production
of the phone and just to give you some
perspective on how badly this went
Samsung sold about 16 million Galaxy S
tens in their first quarter
Nokia sold about five million phones in
the same time period and even Sony sold
about 900 thousand energizer sold
sixteen osya I'm gonna give this one an
8 out of 10
fail rating but as something that isn't
a fail is deserve shark VPN it is the
truth the most affordable VPN service
out there you pay one dollar ninety-nine
a month and like it's you unlimited
simultaneous connections you probably
already know that
VPNs can keep your browsing secure
especially on public connections and
they also help you to get around
internet censorship in certain regions
but surf shark does a lot more plans as
well as being able to connect to single
locations it allows you to multi hop or
encrypt your data through two different
service at the same time surf shop also
monitors your email account for
suspicious activity it checks your
passwords and that even lets you use
something called blind search which is
an internet search tool with no logs no
tracking and no ads
two of the coolest features here are a
built in ad blocker which saves mobile
data and helps you load pages faster and
the ability to access 15 different
Netflix libraries from around the world
so check the link in the description and
use code boss to get an 83 percent
discount and an extra month for free
thanks a lot watching and I will catch
you in the next one
[Music]